# Beaverdam example

This directory contains example data and example configuration files so you can easily test out Beaverdam.

## Dataset

The example dataset contains information on 248 countries from around the world, including location, size, and whether or not each country is landlocked (i.e. doesn't have an ocean coastline).

The files in the example dataset were generated by splitting up [this dataset](https://github.com/ozlerhakan/mongodb-json-files/blob/master/datasets/countries-small.json) into individual json files to simulate a collection of experimental (meta)data.  A new field was also added to separate latitude and longitude coordinates.

## How to run the example

All the terminal commands below work on Linux and assume you're currently in the directory where you've downloaded the example files.  If you use another operating system, or are in a different directory, your commands might be different!

**Note:**  Beaverdam can use either TinyDB (the default) or MongoDB as a database.  The instructions below use TinyDB, because it doesn't require any extra dependencies.  If you have installed MongoDB as described [here](../README.md#dependencies) and would like to test it, replace `config_countries_tinydb.toml` by `config_countries_mongodb.toml` throughout the steps below.

1. Ensure you have the required [dependancies](../README.md#dependencies) and have [installed](../README.md#installation) Beaverdam.
1. Download:
    - `config_countries_tinydb.toml` --> example configuration file
    - `countries.zip` --> example data
    
    To do this in the terminal, when you plan to use TinyDB:
    ```
    wget https://github.com/INM-6/beaverdam/blob/master/example/config_countries_tinydb.toml https://github.com/INM-6/beaverdam/blob/master/example/countries.zip
    ```

1. Extract the zip archive of data into `/countries` in your current directory.

    An example of how to do this in the terminal with the `unzip` utility:
    ```
    unzip countries.zip
    ```
1. **Build a database** from the example data:  in a terminal, enter the virtual environment where you installed beaverdam, and run:
    ```
    beaverdam build config_countries_tinydb.toml
    ```
1. **View the database** in an interactive dashboard:  in a terminal, enter the virtual environment where you installed beaverdam, and run:
    ```
    beaverdam view config_countries_tinydb.toml
    ```
1. Follow the instructions to open the resulting link in your web browser - on Linux, this is `Ctrl+click`
1. Use the filter checkboxes and interactive graphs to explore the data!
1. When you're finished, close the terminal or exit the process - on Linux, this is `Ctrl+C`